The Project Gutenberg EBook of Aesop's Fables, by Aesop

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Aesop's Fables

Author: Aesop

Release Date: February 27, 2004 [EBook #11339]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AESOP'S FABLES ***

Produced by Suzanne Shell, Greg Chapman and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.


AeSOP'S FABLES


A NEW TRANSLATION

BY V. S. VERNON JONES


WITH AN INTRODUCTION

BY G. K. CHESTERTON


AND ILLUSTRATIONS

BY ARTHUR RACKHAM


1912 EDITION




INTRODUCTION


_Aesop embodies an epigram not uncommon in human history; his fame
is all the more deserved because he never deserved it. The firm
foundations of common sense, the shrewd shots at uncommon sense, that
characterise all the Fables, belong not him but to humanity. In
the earliest human history whatever is authentic is universal: and
whatever is universal is anonymous. In such cases there is always
some central man who had first the trouble of collecting them, and
afterwards the fame of creating them. He had the fame; and, on the
whole, he earned the fame. There must have been something great and
human, something of the human future and the human past, in such a
man: even if he only used it to rob the past or deceive the future.
The story of Arthur may have been really connected with the most
fighting Christianity of falling Rome or with the most heathen
traditions hidden in the hills of Wales. But the word "Mappe" or
"Malory" will always mean King Arthur; even though we find older and
better origins than the Mabinogian; or write later and worse versions
than the "Idylls of the King." The nursery fairy tales may have come
out of Asia with the Indo-European race, now fortunately extinct; they
may have been invented by some fine French lady or gentleman like
Perrault: they may possibly even be what they profess to be. But we
shall always call the best selection of such tales "Grimm's Tales":
simply because it is the best collection.

The historical Aesop, in so far as he was historical, would seem to
have been a Phrygian slave, or at least one not to be specially and
symbolically adorned with the Phrygian cap of liberty. He lived, if he
did live, about the sixth century before Christ, in the time of that
Croesus whose story we love and suspect like everything else in
Herodotus. There are also stories of deformity of feature and a ready
ribaldry of tongue: stories which (as the celebrated Cardinal said)
explain, though they do not excuse, his having been hurled over a high
precipice at Delphi. It is for those who read the Fables to judge
whether he was really thrown over the cliff for being ugly and
offensive, or rather for being highly moral and correct. But there is
no kind of doubt that the general legend of him may justly rank him
with a race too easily forgotten in our modern comparisons: the race
of the great philosophic slaves. Aesop may have been a fiction like
Uncle Remus: he was also, like Uncle Remus, a fact. It is a fact that
slaves in the old world could be worshipped like Aesop, or loved like
Uncle Remus. It is odd to note that both the great slaves told their
best stories about beasts and birds.

But whatever be fairly due to Aesop, the human tradition called Fables
is not due to him. This had gone on long before any sarcastic freedman
from Phrygia had or had not been flung off a precipice; this has
remained long after. It is to our advantage, indeed, to realise the
distinction; because it makes Aesop more obviously effective than any
other fabulist. Grimm's Tales, glorious as they are, were collected by
two German students. And if we find it hard to be certain of a German
student, at least we know more about him than We know about a Phrygian
slave. The truth is, of course, that Aesop's Fables are not Aesop's
fables, any more than Grimm's Fairy Tales were ever Grimm's fairy
tales. But the fable and the fairy tale are things utterly distinct.
There are many elements of difference; but the plainest is plain
enough. There can be no good fable with human beings in it. There can
be no good fairy tale without them.

Aesop, or Babrius (or whatever his name was), understood that, for
a fable, all the persons must be impersonal. They must be like
abstractions in algebra, or like pieces in chess. The lion must always
be stronger than the wolf, just as four is always double of two. The
fox in a fable must move crooked, as the knight in chess must move
crooked. The sheep in a fable must march on, as the pawn in chess must
march on. The fable must not allow for the crooked captures of the
pawn; it must not allow for what Balzac called "the revolt of a sheep"
The fairy tale, on the other hand, absolutely revolves on the pivot
of human personality. If no hero were there to fight the dragons, we
should not even know that they were dragons. If no adventurer were
cast on the undiscovered island--it would remain undiscovered. If the
miller's third son does not find the enchanted garden where the seven
princesses stand white and frozen--why, then, they will remain white
and frozen and enchanted. If there is no personal prince to find the
Sleeping Beauty she will simply sleep. Fables repose upon quite the
opposite idea; that everything is itself, and will in any case speak
for itself. The wolf will be always wolfish; the fox will be always
foxy. Something of the same sort may have been meant by the animal
worship, in which Egyptian and Indian and many other great peoples
have combined. Men do not, I think, love beetles or cats or crocodiles
with a wholly personal love; they salute them as expressions of that
abstract and anonymous energy in nature which to any one is awful, and
to an atheist must be frightful. So in all the fables that are or are
not Aesop's all the animal forces drive like inanimate forces, like
great rivers or growing trees. It is the limit and the loss of all
such things that they cannot be anything but themselves: it is their
tragedy that they could not lose their souls.

This is the immortal justification of the Fable: that we could not
teach the plainest truths so simply without turning men into chessmen.
We cannot talk of such simple things without using animals that do
not talk at all. Suppose, for a moment, that you turn the wolf into a
wolfish baron, or the fox into a foxy diplomatist. You will at once
remember that even barons are human, you will be unable to forget
that even diplomatists are men. You will always be looking for that
accidental good-humour that should go with the brutality of any brutal
man; for that allowance for all delicate things, including virtue,
that should exist in any good diplomatist. Once put a thing on two
legs instead of four and pluck it of feathers and you cannot help
asking for a human being, either heroic, as in the fairy tales, or
un-heroic, as in the modern novels.

But by using animals in this austere and arbitrary style as they are
used on the shields of heraldry or the hieroglyphics of the ancients,
men have really succeeded in handing down those tremendous truths that
are called truisms. If the chivalric lion be red and rampant, it is
rigidly red and rampant; if the sacred ibis stands anywhere on one
leg, it stands on one leg for ever. In this language, like a large
animal alphabet, are written some of the first philosophic certainties
of men. As the child learns A for Ass or B for Bull or C for Cow, so
man has learnt here to connect the simpler and stronger creatures with
the simpler and stronger truths. That a flowing stream cannot befoul
its own fountain, and that any one who says it does is a tyrant and a
liar; that a mouse is too weak to fight a lion, but too strong for the
cords that can hold a lion; that a fox who gets most out of a flat
dish may easily get least out of a deep dish; that the crow whom the
gods forbid to sing, the gods nevertheless provide with cheese; that
when the goat insults from a mountain-top it is not the goat that
insults, but the mountain: all these are deep truths deeply graven on
the rocks wherever men have passed. It matters nothing how old they
are, or how new; they are the alphabet of humanity, which like so
many forms of primitive picture-writing employs any living symbol
in preference to man. These ancient and universal tales are all of
animals; as the latest discoveries in the oldest pre-historic caverns
are all of animals. Man, in his simpler states, always felt that he
himself was something too mysterious to be drawn. But the legend he
carved under these cruder symbols was everywhere the same; and whether
fables began with Aesop or began with Adam, whether they were German
and mediAeval as Reynard the Fox, or as French and Renaissance as
La Fontaine, the upshot is everywhere essentially the same: that
superiority is always insolent, because it is always accidental; that
pride goes before a fall; and that there is such a thing as being too
clever by half. You will not find any other legend but this written
upon the rocks by any hand of man. There is every type and time of
fable: but there is only one moral to the fable; because there is only
one moral to everything_.

G. K. CHESTERTON




CONTENTS


THE FOX AND THE GRAPES

THE GOOSE THAT LAID THE GOLDEN EGGS

THE CAT AND THE MICE

THE MISCHIEVOUS DOG

THE CHARCOAL-BURNER AND THE FULLER

THE MICE IN COUNCIL

THE BAT AND THE WEASELS

THE DOG AND THE SOW

THE FOX AND THE CROW

THE HORSE AND THE GROOM

THE WOLF AND THE LAMB

THE PEACOCK AND THE CRANE

THE CAT AND THE BIRDS

THE SPENDTHRIFT AND THE SWALLOW

THE OLD WOMAN AND THE DOCTOR

THE MOON AND HER MOTHER

MERCURY AND THE WOODMAN

THE ASS, THE FOX, AND THE LION

THE LION AND THE MOUSE

THE CROW AND THE PITCHER

THE BOYS AND THE FROGS

THE NORTH WIND AND THE SUN

THE MISTRESS AND HER SERVANTS

THE GOODS AND THE ILLS

THE HARES AND THE FROGS

THE FOX AND THE STORK

THE WOLF IN SHEEP'S CLOTHING

THE STAG IN THE OX-STALL

THE MILKMAID AND HER PAIL

THE DOLPHINS, THE WHALES, AND THE SPRAT

THE FOX AND THE MONKEY

THE ASS AND THE LAP-DOG

THE FIR-TREE AND THE BRAMBLE

THE FROGS' COMPLAINT AGAINST THE SUN

THE DOG, THE COCK, AND THE FOX

THE GNAT AND THE BULL

THE BEAR AND THE TRAVELLERS

THE SLAVE AND THE LION

THE FLEA AND THE MAN

THE BEE AND JUPITER

THE OAK AND THE REEDS

THE BLIND MAN AND THE CUB

THE BOY AND THE SNAILS

THE APES AND THE TWO TRAVELLERS

THE ASS AND HIS BURDENS

THE SHEPHERD'S BOY AND THE WOLF

THE FOX AND THE GOAT

THE FISHERMAN AND THE SPRAT

THE BOASTING TRAVELLER

THE CRAB AND HIS MOTHER

THE ASS AND HIS SHADOW

THE FARMER AND HIS SONS

THE DOG AND THE COOK

THE MONKEY AS KING

THE THIEVES AND THE COCK

THE FARMER AND FORTUNE

JUPITER AND THE MONKEY

FATHER AND SONS

THE LAMP

THE OWL AND THE BIRDS

THE ASS IN THE LION'S SKIN

THE SHE-GOATS AND THEIR BEARDS

THE OLD LION

THE BOY BATHING

THE QUACK FROG

THE SWOLLEN FOX

THE MOUSE, THE FROG, AND THE HAWK

THE BOY AND THE NETTLES

THE PEASANT AND THE APPLE-TREE

THE JACKDAW AND THE PIGEONS

JUPITER AND THE TORTOISE

THE DOG IN THE MANGER

THE TWO BAGS

THE OXEN AND THE AXLETREES

THE BOY AND THE FILBERTS

THE FROGS ASKING FOR A KING

THE OLIVE-TREE AND THE FIG-TREE

THE LION AND THE BOAR

THE WALNUT-TREE

THE MAN AND THE LION

THE TORTOISE AND THE EAGLE

THE KID ON THE HOUSETOP

THE FOX WITHOUT A TAIL

THE VAIN JACKDAW

THE TRAVELLER AND HIS DOG

THE SHIPWRECKED MAN AND THE SEA

THE WILD BOAR AND THE FOX

MERCURY AND THE SCULPTOR

THE FAWN AND HIS MOTHER

THE FOX AND THE LION

THE EAGLE AND HIS CAPTOR

THE BLACKSMITH AND HIS DOG

THE STAG AT THE POOL

THE DOG AND THE SHADOW

MERCURY AND THE TRADESMEN

THE MICE AND THE WEASELS

THE PEACOCK AND JUNO

THE BEAR AND THE FOX

THE ASS AND THE OLD PEASANT

THE OX AND THE FROG

THE MAN AND THE IMAGE

HERCULES AND THE WAGGONER

THE POMEGRANATE, THE APPLE-TREE, AND THE BRAMBLE

THE LION, THE BEAR, AND THE FOX

THE BLACKAMOOR

THE TWO SOLDIERS AND THE ROBBER

THE LION AND THE WILD ASS

THE MAN AND THE SATYR

THE IMAGE-SELLER

THE EAGLE AND THE ARROW

THE RICH MAN AND THE TANNER

THE WOLF, THE MOTHER, AND HER CHILD

THE OLD WOMAN AND THE WINE-JAR

THE LIONESS AND THE VIXEN

THE VIPER AND THE FILE

THE CAT AND THE COCK

THE HARE AND THE TORTOISE

THE SOLDIER AND HIS HORSE

THE OXEN AND THE BUTCHERS

THE WOLF AND THE LION

THE SHEEP, THE WOLF, AND THE STAG

THE LION AND THE THREE BULLS

THE HORSE AND HIS RIDER

THE GOAT AND THE VINE

THE TWO POTS

THE OLD HOUND

THE CLOWN AND THE COUNTRYMAN

THE LARK AND THE FARMER

THE LION AND THE ASS

THE PROPHET

THE HOUND AND THE HARE

THE LION, THE MOUSE, AND THE FOX

THE TRUMPETER TAKEN PRISONER

THE WOLF AND THE CRANE

THE EAGLE, THE CAT, AND THE WILD SOW

THE WOLF AND THE SHEEP

THE TUNNY-FISH AND THE DOLPHIN

THE THREE TRADESMEN

THE MOUSE AND THE BULL

THE HARE AND THE HOUND

THE TOWN MOUSE AND THE COUNTRY MOUSE

THE LION AND THE BULL

THE WOLF, THE FOX, AND THE APE

THE EAGLE AND THE COCKS

THE ESCAPED JACKDAW

THE FARMER AND THE FOX

VENUS AND THE CAT

THE CROW AND THE SWAN

THE STAG WITH ONE EYE

THE FLY AND THE DRAUGHT-MULE

THE COCK AND THE JEWEL

THE WOLF AND THE SHEPHERD

THE FARMER AND THE STORK

THE CHARGER AND THE MILLER

THE GRASSHOPPER AND THE OWL

THE GRASSHOPPER AND THE ANTS

THE FARMER AND THE VIPER

THE TWO FROGS

THE COBBLER TURNED DOCTOR

THE ASS, THE COCK, AND THE LION

THE BELLY AND THE MEMBERS

THE BALD MAN AND THE FLY

THE ASS AND THE WOLF

THE MONKEY AND THE CAMEL

THE SICK MAN AND THE DOCTOR

THE TRAVELLERS AND THE PLANE-TREE

THE FLEA AND THE OX

THE BIRDS, THE BEASTS, AND THE BAT

THE MAN AND HIS TWO SWEETHEARTS

THE EAGLE, THE JACKDAW, AND THE SHEPHERD

THE WOLF AND THE BOY

THE MILLER, HIS SON, AND THEIR ASS

THE STAG AND THE VINE

THE LAMB CHASED BY A WOLF

THE ARCHER AND THE LION

THE WOLF AND THE GOAT

THE SICK STAG

THE ASS AND THE MULE

BROTHER AND SISTER

THE HEIFER AND THE OX

THE KINGDOM OF THE LION

THE ASS AND HIS DRIVER

THE LION AND THE HARE

THE WOLVES AND THE DOGS

THE BULL AND THE CALF

THE TREES AND THE AXE

THE ASTRONOMER

THE LABOURER AND THE SNAKE

THE CAGE-BIRD AND THE BAT

THE ASS AND HIS PURCHASER

THE KID AND THE WOLF

THE DEBTOR AND HIS SOW

THE BALD HUNTSMAN

THE HERDSMAN AND THE LOST BULL

THE MULE

THE HOUND AND THE FOX

THE FATHER AND HIS DAUGHTERS

THE THIEF AND THE INNKEEPER

THE PACK-ASS AND THE WILD ASS

THE ASS AND HIS MASTERS

THE PACK-ASS, THE WILD ASS, AND THE LION

THE ANT

THE FROGS AND THE WELL

THE CRAB AND THE FOX

THE FOX AND THE GRASSHOPPER

THE FARMER, HIS BOY, AND THE ROOKS

THE ASS AND THE DOG

THE ASS CARRYING THE IMAGE

THE ATHENIAN AND THE THEBAN

THE GOATHERD AND THE GOAT

THE SHEEP AND THE DOG

THE SHEPHERD AND THE WOLF

THE LION, JUPITER, AND THE ELEPHANT

THE PIG AND THE SHEEP

THE GARDENER AND HIS DOG

THE RIVERS AND THE SEA

THE LION IN LOVE

THE BEE-KEEPER

THE WOLF AND THE HORSE

THE BAT, THE BRAMBLE, AND THE SEAGULL

THE DOG AND THE WOLF

THE WASP AND THE SNAKE

THE EAGLE AND THE BEETLE

THE FOWLER AND THE LARK

THE FISHERMAN PIPING

THE WEASEL AND THE MAN

THE PLOUGHMAN, THE ASS, AND THE OX

DEMADES AND HIS FABLE

THE MONKEY AND THE DOLPHIN

THE CROW AND THE SNAKE

THE DOGS AND THE FOX

THE NIGHTINGALE AND THE HAWK

THE ROSE AND THE AMARANTH

THE MAN, THE HORSE, THE OX, AND THE DOG

THE WOLVES, THE SHEEP, AND THE RAM

THE SWAN

THE SNAKE AND JUPITER

THE WOLF AND HIS SHADOW

THE PLOUGHMAN AND THE WOLF

MERCURY AND THE MAN BITTEN BY AN ANT

THE WILY LION

THE PARROT AND THE CAT

THE STAG AND THE LION

THE IMPOSTOR

THE DOGS AND THE HIDES

THE LION, THE FOX, AND THE ASS

THE FOWLER, THE PARTRIDGE, AND THE COCK

THE GNAT AND THE LION

THE FARMER AND HIS DOGS

THE EAGLE AND THE FOX

THE BUTCHER AND HIS CUSTOMERS

HERCULES AND MINERVA

THE FOX WHO SERVED A LION

THE QUACK DOCTOR

THE LION, THE WOLF, AND THE FOX

HERCULES AND PLUTUS

THE FOX AND THE LEOPARD

THE FOX AND THE HEDGEHOG

THE CROW AND THE RAVEN

THE WITCH

THE OLD MAN AND DEATH

THE MISER

THE FOXES AND THE RIVER

THE HORSE AND THE STAG

THE FOX AND THE BRAMBLE

THE FOX AND THE SNAKE

THE LION, THE FOX, AND THE STAG

THE MAN WHO LOST HIS SPADE

THE PARTRIDGE AND THE FOWLER

THE RUNAWAY SLAVE

THE HUNTER AND THE WOODMAN

THE SERPENT AND THE EAGLE

THE ROGUE AND THE ORACLE

THE HORSE AND THE ASS

THE DOG CHASING A WOLF

GRIEF AND HIS DUE

THE HAWK, THE KITE, AND THE PIGEONS

THE WOMAN AND THE FARMER

PROMETHEUS AND THE MAKING OF MAN

THE SWALLOW AND THE CROW

THE HUNTER AND THE HORSEMAN

THE GOATHERD AND THE WILD GOATS

THE NIGHTINGALE AND THE SWALLOW

THE TRAVELLER AND FORTUNE




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


=IN COLOUR=


THE HARE AND THE TORTOISE

THE MOON AND HER MOTHER

THE FIR-TREE AND THE BRAMBLE

THE CRAB AND HIS MOTHER

THE QUACK FROG

THE SHIPWRECKED MAN AND THE SEA

THE BLACKAMOOR

THE TWO POTS

VENUS AND THE CAT

THE TRAVELLERS AND THE PLANE-TREE

THE TREES AND THE AXE

THE LION, JUPITER, AND THE ELEPHANT

THE GNAT AND THE LION


=IN BLACK AND WHITE=


THE FOX AND THE GRAPES

THE FOX AND THE CROW

THE CAT AND THE BIRDS

THE CROW AND THE PITCHER

THE NORTH WIND AND THE SUN

THE FOX AND THE STORK

THE GNAT AND THE BULL

THE FLEA AND THE MAN

THE OAK AND THE REEDS

THE THIEVES AND THE COCK

THE OWL AND THE BIRDS

THE ASS IN THE LION'S SKIN

THE BOY BATHING

THE DOG IN THE MANGER

THE FROGS ASKING FOR A KING

KING LOG

THE FOX WITHOUT A TAIL

THE FOX AND THE LION

THE DOG AND THE SHADOW

THE BEAR AND THE FOX

THE OX AND THE FROG

THE MAN AND THE SATYR

THE OLD WOMAN AND THE WINE-JAR

THE CAT AND THE COCK

THE SHEEP, THE WOLF, AND THE STAG

THE GOAT AND THE VINE

THE HOUND AND THE HARE

THE WOLF AND THE CRANE

THE TOWN MOUSE AND THE COUNTRY MOUSE

THE WOLF, THE FOX, AND THE APE

THE COCK AND THE JEWEL

THE GRASSHOPPER AND THE ANTS

THE BALD MAN AND THE FLY

THE MONKEY AND THE CAMEL

THE MILLER, HIS SON, AND THEIR ASS

THE WOLF AND THE GOAT

THE KINGDOM OF THE LION

THE KID AND THE WOLF

THE MULE

THE FROGS AND THE WELL

THE GOATHERD AND THE GOAT

THE WOLF AND THE HORSE

THE FISHERMAN PIPING

THE MONKEY AND THE DOLPHIN

THE WOLF AND HIS SHADOW

THE LION, THE FOX, AND THE ASS

THE GNAT AND THE LION

THE FOX AND THE LEOPARD

THE MISER

THE HUNTER AND THE WOODMAN

THE HORSE AND THE ASS




AeSOP'S FABLES




THE FOX AND THE GRAPES


A hungry Fox saw some fine bunches of Grapes hanging from a vine that
was trained along a high trellis, and did his best to reach them by
jumping as high as he could into the air. But it was all in vain, for
they were just out of reach: so he gave up trying, and walked away
with an air of dignity and unconcern, remarking, "I thought those
Grapes were ripe, but I see now they are quite sour."




THE GOOSE THAT LAID THE GOLDEN EGGS


A Man and his Wife had the good fortune to possess a Goose which laid
a Golden Egg every day. Lucky though they were, they soon began to
think they were not getting rich fast enough, and, imagining the bird
must be made of gold inside, they decided to kill it in order to
secure the whole store of precious metal at once. But when they cut it
open they found it was just like any other goose. Thus, they neither
got rich all at once, as they had hoped, nor enjoyed any longer the
daily addition to their wealth.

    Much wants more and loses all.




THE CAT AND THE MICE


There was once a house that was overrun with Mice. A Cat heard of
this, and said to herself, "That's the place for me," and off she went
and took up her quarters in the house, and caught the Mice one by one
and ate them. At last the Mice could stand it no longer, and they
determined to take to their holes and stay there. "That's awkward,"
said the Cat to herself: "the only thing to do is to coax them out by
a trick." So she considered a while, and then climbed up the wall and
let herself hang down by her hind legs from a peg, and pretended to
be dead. By and by a Mouse peeped out and saw the Cat hanging there.
"Aha!" it cried, "you're very clever, madam, no doubt: but you may
turn yourself into a bag of meal hanging there, if you like, yet you
won't catch us coming anywhere near you."

    If you are wise you won't be deceived by the innocent airs of
    those whom you have once found to be dangerous.




THE MISCHIEVOUS DOG


There was once a Dog who used to snap at people and bite them without
any provocation, and who was a great nuisance to every one who came to
his master's house. So his master fastened a bell round his neck to
warn people of his presence. The Dog was very proud of the bell, and
strutted about tinkling it with immense satisfaction. But an old dog
came up to him and said, "The fewer airs you give yourself the better,
my friend. You don't think, do you, that your bell was given you as a
reward of merit? On the contrary, it is a badge of disgrace."

    Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.




THE CHARCOAL-BURNER AND THE FULLER


There was once a Charcoal-burner who lived and worked by himself.
A Fuller, however, happened to come and settle in the same
neighbourhood; and the Charcoal-burner, having made his acquaintance
and finding he was an agreeable sort of fellow, asked him if he would
come and share his house: "We shall get to know one another better
that way," he said, "and, beside, our household expenses will be
diminished." The Fuller thanked him, but replied, "I couldn't think
of it, sir: why, everything I take such pains to whiten would be
blackened in no time by your charcoal."




THE MICE IN COUNCIL


Once upon a time all the Mice met together in Council, and discussed
the best means of securing themselves against the attacks of the cat.
After several suggestions had been debated, a Mouse of some standing
and experience got up and said, "I think I have hit upon a plan which
will ensure our safety in the future, provided you approve and carry
it out. It is that we should fasten a bell round the neck of our enemy
the cat, which will by its tinkling warn us of her approach." This
proposal was warmly applauded, and it had been already decided to
adopt it, when an old Mouse got upon his feet and said, "I agree with
you all that the plan before us is an admirable one: but may I ask who
is going to bell the cat?"




THE BAT AND THE WEASELS


A Bat fell to the ground and was caught by a Weasel, and was just
going to be killed and eaten when it begged to be let go. The Weasel
said he couldn't do that because he was an enemy of all birds on
principle. "Oh, but," said the Bat, "I'm not a bird at all: I'm a
mouse." "So you are," said the Weasel, "now I come to look at you";
and he let it go. Some time after this the Bat was caught in just the
same way by another Weasel, and, as before, begged for its life. "No,"
said the Weasel, "I never let a mouse go by any chance." "But I'm not
a mouse," said the Bat; "I'm a bird." "Why, so you are," said the
Weasel; and he too let the Bat go.

    Look and see which way the wind blows before you commit yourself.




THE DOG AND THE SOW


A Dog and a Sow were arguing and each claimed that its own young ones
were finer than those of any other animal. "Well," said the Sow at
last, "mine can see, at any rate, when they come into the world: but
yours are born blind."




THE FOX AND THE CROW


A Crow was sitting on a branch of a tree with a piece of cheese in her
beak when a Fox observed her and set his wits to work to discover
some way of getting the cheese. Coming and standing under the tree he
looked up and said, "What a noble bird I see above me! Her beauty is
without equal, the hue of her plumage exquisite. If only her voice is
as sweet as her looks are fair, she ought without doubt to be Queen of
the Birds." The Crow was hugely flattered by this, and just to show
the Fox that she could sing she gave a loud caw. Down came the cheese,
of course, and the Fox, snatching it up, said, "You have a voice,
madam, I see: what you want is wits."




THE HORSE AND THE GROOM


There was once a Groom who used to spend long hours clipping and
combing the Horse of which he had charge, but who daily stole a
portion of his allowance of oats, and sold it for his own profit. The
Horse gradually got into worse and worse condition, and at last cried
to the Groom, "If you really want me to look sleek and well, you must
comb me less and feed me more."




THE WOLF AND THE LAMB


A Wolf came upon a Lamb straying from the flock, and felt some
compunction about taking the life of so helpless a creature without
some plausible excuse; so he cast about for a grievance and said
at last, "Last year, sirrah, you grossly insulted me." "That is
impossible, sir," bleated the Lamb, "for I wasn't born then." "Well,"
retorted the Wolf, "you feed in my pastures." "That cannot be,"
replied the Lamb, "for I have never yet tasted grass." "You drink from
my spring, then," continued the Wolf. "Indeed, sir," said the poor
Lamb, "I have never yet drunk anything but my mother's milk." "Well,
anyhow," said the Wolf, "I'm not going without my dinner": and he
sprang upon the Lamb and devoured it without more ado.




THE PEACOCK AND THE CRANE


A Peacock taunted a Crane with the dullness of her plumage. "Look at
my brilliant colours," said she, "and see how much finer they are than
your poor feathers." "I am not denying," replied the Crane, "that
yours are far gayer than mine; but when it comes to flying I can
soar into the clouds, whereas you are confined to the earth like any
dunghill cock."




THE CAT AND THE BIRDS


A Cat heard that the Birds in an aviary were ailing. So he got himself
up as a doctor, and, taking with him a set of the instruments proper
to his profession, presented himself at the door, and inquired after
the health of the Birds. "We shall do very well," they replied,
without letting him in, "when we've seen the last of you."

    A villain may disguise himself, but he will not deceive the wise.




THE SPENDTHRIFT AND THE SWALLOW


A Spendthrift, who had wasted his fortune, and had nothing left but
the clothes in which he stood, saw a Swallow one fine day in early
spring. Thinking that summer had come, and that he could now do
without his coat, he went and sold it for what it would fetch. A
change, however, took place in the weather, and there came a sharp
frost which killed the unfortunate Swallow. When the Spendthrift saw
its dead body he cried, "Miserable bird! Thanks to you I am perishing
of cold myself."

    One swallow does not make summer.




THE OLD WOMAN AND THE DOCTOR


An Old Woman became almost totally blind from a disease of the eyes,
and, after consulting a Doctor, made an agreement with him in the
presence of witnesses that she should pay him a high fee if he
cured her, while if he failed he was to receive nothing. The Doctor
accordingly prescribed a course of treatment, and every time he paid
her a visit he took away with him some article out of the house, until
at last, when he visited her for the last time, and the cure was
complete, there was nothing left. When the Old Woman saw that the
house was empty she refused to pay him his fee; and, after repeated
refusals on her part, he sued her before the magistrates for payment
of her debt. On being brought into court she was ready with her
defence. "The claimant," said she, "has stated the facts about our
agreement correctly. I undertook to pay him a fee if he cured me, and
he, on his part, promised to charge nothing if he failed. Now, he says
I am cured; but I say that I am blinder than ever, and I can prove
what I say. When my eyes were bad I could at any rate see well enough
to be aware that my house contained a certain amount of furniture and
other things; but now, when according to him I am cured, I am entirely
unable to see anything there at all."




THE MOON AND HER MOTHER


The Moon once begged her Mother to make her a gown. "How can I?"
replied she; "there's no fitting your figure. At one time you're a New
Moon, and at another you're a Full Moon; and between whiles you're
neither one nor the other."




MERCURY AND THE WOODMAN


A Woodman was felling a tree on the bank of a river, when his axe,
glancing off the trunk, flew out of his hands and fell into the water.
As he stood by the water's edge lamenting his loss, Mercury appeared
and asked him the reason for his grief; and on learning what had
happened, out of pity for his distress he dived into the river and,
bringing up a golden axe, asked him if that was the one he had lost.
The Woodman replied that it was not, and Mercury then dived a second
time, and, bringing up a silver axe, asked if that was his. "No, that
is not mine either," said the Woodman. Once more Mercury dived into
the river, and brought up the missing axe. The Woodman was overjoyed
at recovering his property, and thanked his benefactor warmly; and the
latter was so pleased with his honesty that he made him a present of
the other two axes. When the Woodman told the story to his companions,
one of these was filled with envy of his good fortune and determined
to try his luck for himself. So he went and began to fell a tree at
the edge of the river, and presently contrived to let his axe drop
into the water. Mercury appeared as before, and, on learning that his
axe had fallen in, he dived and brought up a golden axe, as he had
done on the previous occasion. Without waiting to be asked whether
it was his or not the fellow cried, "That's mine, that's mine," and
stretched out his hand eagerly for the prize: but Mercury was so
disgusted at his dishonesty that he not only declined to give him the